>> Steve Kinney: So Mike just covered how
to push notifications from the server to
the client.
Now, this is really useful for
doing a lot of things.
You could update data and
IndexedDB database.
You could terminate a service worker.
But occasionally you're going to
want to actually show the user
something that happened.
And this again, is something that
we take for granted in native apps.
Whether we take for
granted every time I look at my phone,
that there's like a wall of different
notifications from seven different apps.
Turns out that we can also participate
in this inside of the browser.
>> Steve Kinney: But as Mike covered
earlier, we do need permission, right?
If the user does not grant us permission,
then we can’t send them
any kind of notification.
This is true of native as well,
the user has to give us permission,
and the interesting part is if a user
denies us permission,
then we're denied forever.
And this is slightly problematic,
this is why sometimes you'll see
a not real notification first.
Like hey, wouldn't it be great to get this
notifications and then if you hit yeah,
would be, then you get prompted.
That is a situation where they don't
want to show you the browser's request
permission because if
that were to happen and
you said, no, they are shut out forever.
So, the notification permission
is in one of three states.
Default, which is you
haven't been asked yet.
Granted, which means you have
turned on the fire host and
you already started
receiving notifications.
And denied, which means you've
turned them off forever.
You can check that later
using Notification.permission to see
what permission you actually have.
So again, in the same way we checked does
service worker exist in this situation,
we can do the exact same thing by
checking notification permissions and
see where we are.
So, one thing you might choose
to do is see if it's default,
then go ahead and try to show them the fun
pop up and then show them the real one.
This is what it looks like,
this is on this page, if they hit the x,
they actually stay in
default at this point.
They have not officially said block.
They haven't said allow, but
they haven't said block either,
and this will allow you another attempt.
Now, most users don't know
that little x exists and
they are most likely to block you if they
don't wanna see those notifications.
You can also see that
Notification.requestPermission returned
a promise
>> Steve Kinney: Cool,
like everything else,
we wanna use progressive enhancement.
Our code will theoretically throw
an exception if there is no notification
object in the window object.
If we try to call requestPermission or any
of those properties, that will blow up.
So we do the same thing we
do with service worker,
we check to see if the notification
object is in the window.
>> Steve Kinney: If it is and
we haven't asked for permission yet, so
we're default,
then we go ahead ask for permission.
If we've gotten that permission,
then creating a notification
is relatively straightforward.
We create a new notification.
And again, this is where that checking
on the first line to see if notification
exists is really useful.
With that notification
we can give it a title,
which is the first
argument is that string.
The second argument,
which we'll take a look at in a second,
is a object of options.
Not dissimilar from some of the other APIs
that we've looked at over the course of
the day.
In this case, we're setting the body,
which you can kinda think of as
the subtitle of the notification.
We can also include an icon.
And when we go over the options,
different options are supported
by different operating systems.
This includes mobile as
well as desktop browsers.
>> Steve Kinney: If we've been denied,
then we can do other obnoxious stuff.
Don't do this, nobody will like
you if you do this, thank you.
That's my public service announcement for
the day.
We can also trigger notifications
from service workers.
All right, this means that when
something happens in the background,
if that browser tab isn't open,
you can still trigger a notification.
But the syntax is a little bit different.
If you just say new notification,
the user will never see that notification.
The syntax from doing it from
a service worker is to get the service
worker's registration and
trigger the show notification method.
And that takes all of the same options as
new notification does, but you do need to
find that registered service worker and
trigger it through that method.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, I don't know,
I don't make the rules.
Cool, so, notifications, two arguments.
A single string for the title and
that object full of options.
We can kinda think about the options
broke apart in three different sections.
Which is the visual options, like is
there an icon, what is the body of it?
Behavioral options, like what happens
when the user starts to interact with it?
And other kind of informational
options that we'll take a look at.
So the visual options.
We have the body,
which we saw in the icon,
which is a small image
that'll go along with it.
Other operating systems,
you can do a larger image.
This would be, if you had an OS that
supported a notification where the image
was the notification.
You wanna notify them about a new
Instagram picture or something like that.
I think that this is primarily
supported on Chrome OS, so
some of these are very specific.
The normal ones you're going
to use are body and icon.
Vibrate, that is mobile specific, my
laptop as far as I know does not vibrate.
Sound, you can attribute a sound with it.
And direction, left to right or
right to left for different languages.
By default it's auto, which is
probably what you want in this case.
The behavioral options,
these are kinda interesting.
So you have a tag, the tag is
what kind of notification it is.
Right, this way, let's say you're
sending a notification for
every 10% of upload progress.
You probably don't wanna
send ten of those.
So the tag is the type of notification so
they can be grouped by operating
systems that support grouping.
Data is literally any object
that you wanna include.
This could be important information
that you wanna handle on a click, or
anything along those lines.
When we trigger notification
on the MacOS or
Windows, you'll see that
automatically goes away.
RequireInteraction, it will stick around
until the user interacts with it.
Renotify will actually show back up,
this is mobile only.
And silent, it'll be silent.
So talking about notifications is kind
of hard to capture in slides, and
it's also fairly boring
to talk about in slides.
So what we'll do is we'll play around
with them in a little contrive safe space
for a second.
So this is a little glitch
called notify the authorities.
>> Steve Kinney: And loading it, cool.
>> Steve Kinney: And so you see the first
thing, I am prompted to allow, so
we will allow notifications.
And we can see that thanks for granting
permission, we promise not to abuse it.
Cool, the other thing we can do is we say,
show me an image, and
this is literally just
something to trigger.
This one is actually gonna
come from the service worker.
We'll take a look at the code in a second,
but we click it.
Oops, what happened to my image?
Let's see, let's take a look at our code.
>> Steve Kinney: My remote
Bill Murray didn't work.
That's okay, we'll check that out.
Let's take a look at the code.
So in this case, if we try to get
that mystery.png, what we'll do is
we'll say self.registration will
show a notification in this case.
This will be the fetching
my mystery image.
We'll give it an icon, which just happens
to be in assets is just a png file.
This is the URL for it.
Then we have some data.
This is, theoretically in this case,
the site that the image came from and just
some arbitrary data of favorite color.
And this object we can use, when they
click on the event it will be included
with the event.notification in this case.
We can also include actions,
which I'll show you in a second.
On different operating systems
this'll look different.
Like in one case we have
just a general click.
On other operating systems like Android
you'll have the ability to take different
actions based on the notification.
This is also true when we see it
in Chrome there'll be a more and
you'll actually see
a few different options.
And you'll see that there's
just action and title.
And the action is much like
a tag in this case, and
the title is what will actually
be displayed to the user.
And then in a service worker,
we only have access to notification click.
Inside notification click,
that'll be where we have an event object.
That event object will have
a property called notification, and
notification will have all
of the different, the data,
which action was clicked,
if any, so on and so forth.